README.md, before:


# درسني - Darsni Educational Platform

منصة تعليمية تفاعلية للتحضير لامتحانات البجروت مع واجهة ألعاب تحفيزية

An interactive educational platform for Bagrut exam preparation with gamified learning interface.

## 🚀 Project Overview

Darsni is a modern educational platform built with React and TypeScript that provides:
- **Gamified Learning Experience**: XP, levels, streaks, and achievements
- **Interactive Course Content**: Video lessons, quizzes, and practice materials
- **Student Dashboard**: Progress tracking and performance analytics
- **Admin Panel**: Course management and user administration
- **Responsive Design**: Optimized for desktop and mobile devices
- **Real-Time Analytics**: Live progress tracking and performance insights

## 🛠 Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React 18, TypeScript, Vite
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS, Custom CSS animations
- **UI Components**: Radix UI (shadcn/ui)
- **Routing**: React Router DOM
- **State Management**: React Context, TanStack Query
- **Animations**: Framer Motion, Canvas Confetti
- **Charts**: Recharts
- **Backend**: Firebase (Authentication, Firestore, Storage)
- **Development**: ESLint, TypeScript strict mode

## 📁 Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/          # Reusable UI components
│   ├── ui/             # Base UI components (shadcn/ui)
│   ├── course/         # Course-specific components
│   ├── friends/        # Social features components
│   └── widgets/        # Dashboard widgets
├── contexts/           # React contexts for state management
├── hooks/              # Custom React hooks
├── layouts/            # Page layout components
├── pages/              # Route components
│   ├── admin/          # Admin panel pages
│   └── student/        # Student dashboard pages
├── styles/             # Global styles and themes
├── types/              # TypeScript type definitions
└── lib/                # Utility functions and configurations
    ├── firebase.ts     # Firebase configuration
    ├── firebaseUtils.ts # Real-time analytics and data functions
    └── authUtils.ts    # Authentication utilities
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ 
- npm or yarn package manager
- Firebase project setup

### **📋 Development Rules**

#### **Rule 1: Code Commits**
When a section is completed with all tests passing and everything working correctly:
- ✅ Commit the code with descriptive commit messages
- ✅ Include the specific features/functionality in the commit
- ✅ Ensure all tests are passing before committing

#### **Rule 2: README Updates**
When new features or logic are implemented that are crucial for the client/owner to be aware of:
- ✅ Update the README.md file
- ✅ Document the new features clearly
- ✅ Include setup instructions if needed
- ✅ Add any important notes for the client

#### **Rule 3: Key Management**
When adding API keys, service account keys, or any sensitive credentials:
- ✅ **Add to `.gitignore`**: Ensure the file is listed in `.gitignore` before committing
- ✅ **Update README**: Document what keys are needed and how to obtain them
- ✅ **Environment Variables**: Use `.env` files for client-side keys when possible
- ✅ **Never Commit**: Never commit actual key files to version control

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <YOUR_GIT_URL>
   cd <YOUR_PROJECT_NAME>
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Firebase Setup**
   - Create a Firebase project
   - Enable Authentication and Firestore
   - Add your Firebase config to `config/firebaseConfig.ts`
   - Set up Firestore security rules

4. **Start development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. **Open in browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:8080`

### Test Accounts

**Student Account:**
- Email: `student@darsni.com`
- Password: Any password
- Features: Course access, progress tracking, gamification

**Admin Account:**
- Email: `admin@darsni.com`
- Password: Any password  
- Features: Course management, user administration

## 🎮 Key Features

### For Students
- **Interactive Courses**: Video lessons with chapters and notes
- **Progress Tracking**: XP system, levels, and achievement streaks
- **Gamified Learning**: Coins, leaderboards, and weekly challenges
- **Social Features**: Friends, study groups, and community interaction
- **Responsive Design**: Seamless experience across devices
- **Real-Time Analytics**: Live progress tracking and performance insights

### For Administrators
- **Course Management**: Upload, edit, and organize course content
- **User Administration**: Monitor student progress and engagement
- **Analytics Dashboard**: Platform usage and performance metrics
- **Content Tools**: Bulk upload and content organization features

## 📊 Real-Time Analytics System

### **NEW: Comprehensive Progress Tracking**
The platform now includes a complete real-time analytics system that tracks:

#### **User Analytics**
- **Total XP**: Accumulated from all activities
- **Study Time**: Minutes spent learning
- **Streak System**: Daily login tracking with bonuses
- **Course Progress**: Real-time completion tracking
- **Achievement Tracking**: All user activities and milestones

#### **Weekly Progress**
- **Current Week XP**: Real-time weekly XP accumulation
- **Previous Week Comparison**: Week-over-week progress analysis
- **Study Hours**: Actual time spent studying
- **Weekly Goals**: Configurable XP targets with progress tracking

#### **Activity System**
- **Unit Completion**: Records when users complete course units
- **Quiz Passing**: Tracks quiz achievements and scores
- **Course Enrollment**: Records course starts and progress
- **Daily Login Bonuses**: Automatic XP rewards for consistent usage

#### **Streak System**
- **First Login**: Users start with 1-day streak immediately
- **Daily Bonuses**: 50 XP for daily logins, 100 XP for first login
- **Streak Tracking**: Visual feedback for consecutive days
- **Streak Breaking**: Automatic reset when users miss days

### **Dashboard Features**
- **Real Statistics**: All numbers calculated from actual user data
- **Live Updates**: Dashboard refreshes automatically with new data
- **Progress Visualization**: Charts and graphs showing real progress
- **Goal Tracking**: Weekly XP goals with progress bars
- **Achievement Display**: Recent activities and milestones

## 🔧 Development Guidelines

### Code Style
- Use TypeScript for all new files
- Follow React functional components with hooks
- Implement proper error boundaries where needed
- Use Tailwind CSS for styling with semantic class names
- Follow the existing file naming conventions

### Component Structure
```typescript
// Component template
import React from 'react';
import { ComponentProps } from '@/types/component';

interface ComponentNameProps {
  // Define props with proper types
}

const ComponentName = ({ ...props }: ComponentNameProps) => {
  // Component logic
  
  return (
    <div className="semantic-class-names">
      {/* Component JSX */}
    </div>
  );
};

export default ComponentName;
```

### Adding New Features
1. Create types in `/src/types/` if needed
2. Build reusable components in `/src/components/`
3. Add pages to appropriate `/src/pages/` subdirectory
4. Update routing in `App.tsx`
5. Add proper TypeScript interfaces
6. Test across different screen sizes

### Firebase Integration
- All user data is stored in Firebase Firestore
- Real-time listeners provide live updates
- Analytics are calculated from actual user activities
- Security rules ensure data protection

## 🎨 Theming

The platform uses a custom cosmic/gaming theme with:
- **Dark Background**: Deep space aesthetic
- **Accent Colors**: Orange/red gradient (`#FF4B1A` to `#FF794B`)
- **Typography**: Arabic support with Noto Sans Arabic, Changa fonts
- **Animations**: Smooth transitions and particle effects

### Color Palette
```css
--game-primary: #FF4B1A;    /* Primary orange */
--game-accent: #FF794B;     /* Secondary orange */
--cosmic-primary: #00D4FF;  /* Cyan blue */
--background: #0E0E0E;      /* Dark background */
```

## 📱 Responsive Design

The platform is optimized for:
- **Desktop**: Full feature experience (1024px+)
- **Tablet**: Adapted layouts (768px - 1023px)
- **Mobile**: Mobile-first approach (320px - 767px)

## 🧪 Testing

Currently using manual testing. Future improvements:
- Unit tests with Jest and React Testing Library
- Integration tests for user flows
- End-to-end testing with Playwright

## 🚀 Deployment

### Lovable Platform
1. Click "Publish" in the Lovable editor
2. Your app will be deployed to `yoursite.lovable.app`

### Custom Domain
1. Navigate to Project > Settings > Domains
2. Connect your custom domain
3. Follow DNS configuration instructions

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Follow the existing code style and patterns
2. Add proper TypeScript types for new features
3. Test on multiple screen sizes
4. Update documentation for new features
5. Ensure Arabic text displays correctly

### **🔒 Security Rules**

#### **Rule 3: Key Management**
When adding API keys, service account keys, or any sensitive credentials:
- ✅ **Add to `.gitignore`**: Ensure the file is listed in `.gitignore` before committing
- ✅ **Update README**: Document what keys are needed and how to obtain them
- ✅ **Environment Variables**: Use `.env` files for client-side keys when possible
- ✅ **Never Commit**: Never commit actual key files to version control

#### **Required Keys Setup**
The following keys are required for the project:

**Firebase Configuration (`config/firebaseConfig.ts`):**
```typescript
// Create this file with your Firebase project settings
export const firebaseConfig = {
  apiKey: "your-api-key",
  authDomain: "your-project.firebaseapp.com",
  projectId: "your-project-id",
  storageBucket: "your-project.appspot.com",
  messagingSenderId: "123456789",
  appId: "your-app-id"
};
```

**Firebase Admin SDK (`scripts/serviceAccountKey.json`):**
- Download from Firebase Console > Project Settings > Service Accounts
- Used for server-side operations (database population scripts)
- **NEVER commit this file to version control**

**Environment Variables (`.env`):**
```bash
# Create .env file for any additional API keys
VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your-api-key
VITE_ANALYTICS_ID=your-analytics-id
```

## 🗄️ Database Population Script

### Setup
1. **Install dependencies**: `cd scripts && npm install`
2. **Add service account key**: Place `serviceAccountKey.json` in `config/` directory
3. **Update Firebase rules**: Use the rules from `firebase-security-rules-update.md`

### Run Script
```bash
cd scripts
npm run populate
```

### What it adds:
- **📊 15 leaderboard entries** (10 weekly + 5 monthly)
- **💬 10 motivational quotes** in Arabic
- **🎯 Realistic data** with Arabic names and scores

### Data Structure:
- **Leaderboards**: `leaderboards` collection with `period`, `score`, `rank`
- **Quotes**: `motivationalQuotes` collection with `text`, `author`, `category`

## 📚 Additional Resources

- [Lovable Documentation](https://docs.lovable.dev/)
- [React Documentation](https://react.dev/)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [Radix UI](https://www.radix-ui.com/)
- [Firebase Documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs)

## 📄 License

All rights reserved © 2023 Darsni Educational Platform

---

## 🆘 Need Help?

- Check the [troubleshooting guide](https://docs.lovable.dev/tips-tricks/troubleshooting)
- Review component documentation in `/src/components/`
- Examine existing code patterns for reference
- Test with the provided demo accounts

**Happy coding! 🎓**

Commit message:

feat: Update Firebase security rules and add client-side database population script
🔧 CHANGES:
- Refactored Firebase security rules to allow authenticated users to read/write their own data and admin users to manage core collections.
- Introduced a new client-side HTML script for populating the database with sample leaderboard entries and motivational quotes.
- Updated README.md with detailed instructions for using the new population script and Firebase rules.

🎯 BENEFITS:
- Enhanced security rules for better data management and user access.
- Simplified database population process for easier testing and development.
- Clear documentation to guide users through setup and usage.

The application now supports dynamic data population and improved security! 🚀

README.md, after:


# درسني - Darsni Educational Platform

منصة تعليمية تفاعلية للتحضير لامتحانات البجروت مع واجهة ألعاب تحفيزية

An interactive educational platform for Bagrut exam preparation with gamified learning interface.

## 🚀 Project Overview

Darsni is a modern educational platform built with React and TypeScript that provides:
- **Gamified Learning Experience**: XP, levels, streaks, and achievements
- **Interactive Course Content**: Video lessons, quizzes, and practice materials
- **Student Dashboard**: Progress tracking and performance analytics
- **Admin Panel**: Course management and user administration
- **Responsive Design**: Optimized for desktop and mobile devices
- **Real-Time Analytics**: Live progress tracking and performance insights

## 🛠 Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React 18, TypeScript, Vite
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS, Custom CSS animations
- **UI Components**: Radix UI (shadcn/ui)
- **Routing**: React Router DOM
- **State Management**: React Context, TanStack Query
- **Animations**: Framer Motion, Canvas Confetti
- **Charts**: Recharts
- **Backend**: Firebase (Authentication, Firestore, Storage)
- **Development**: ESLint, TypeScript strict mode

## 📁 Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/          # Reusable UI components
│   ├── ui/             # Base UI components (shadcn/ui)
│   ├── course/         # Course-specific components
│   ├── friends/        # Social features components
│   └── widgets/        # Dashboard widgets
├── contexts/           # React contexts for state management
├── hooks/              # Custom React hooks
├── layouts/            # Page layout components
├── pages/              # Route components
│   ├── admin/          # Admin panel pages
│   └── student/        # Student dashboard pages
├── styles/             # Global styles and themes
├── types/              # TypeScript type definitions
└── lib/                # Utility functions and configurations
    ├── firebase.ts     # Firebase configuration
    ├── firebaseUtils.ts # Real-time analytics and data functions
    └── authUtils.ts    # Authentication utilities
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ 
- npm or yarn package manager
- Firebase project setup

### **📋 Development Rules**

#### **Rule 1: Code Commits**
When a section is completed with all tests passing and everything working correctly:
- ✅ Commit the code with descriptive commit messages
- ✅ Include the specific features/functionality in the commit
- ✅ Ensure all tests are passing before committing

#### **Rule 2: README Updates**
When new features or logic are implemented that are crucial for the client/owner to be aware of:
- ✅ Update the README.md file
- ✅ Document the new features clearly
- ✅ Include setup instructions if needed
- ✅ Add any important notes for the client

#### **Rule 3: Key Management**
When adding API keys, service account keys, or any sensitive credentials:
- ✅ **Add to `.gitignore`**: Ensure the file is listed in `.gitignore` before committing
- ✅ **Update README**: Document what keys are needed and how to obtain them
- ✅ **Environment Variables**: Use `.env` files for client-side keys when possible
- ✅ **Never Commit**: Never commit actual key files to version control

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <YOUR_GIT_URL>
   cd <YOUR_PROJECT_NAME>
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Firebase Setup**
   - Create a Firebase project
   - Enable Authentication and Firestore
   - Add your Firebase config to `config/firebaseConfig.ts`
   - Set up Firestore security rules

4. **Start development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. **Open in browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:8080`

### Test Accounts

**Student Account:**
- Email: `student@darsni.com`
- Password: Any password
- Features: Course access, progress tracking, gamification

**Admin Account:**
- Email: `admin@darsni.com`
- Password: Any password  
- Features: Course management, user administration

## 🎮 Key Features

### For Students
- **Interactive Courses**: Video lessons with chapters and notes
- **Progress Tracking**: XP system, levels, and achievement streaks
- **Gamified Learning**: Coins, leaderboards, and weekly challenges
- **Social Features**: Friends, study groups, and community interaction
- **Responsive Design**: Seamless experience across devices
- **Real-Time Analytics**: Live progress tracking and performance insights

### For Administrators
- **Course Management**: Upload, edit, and organize course content
- **User Administration**: Monitor student progress and engagement
- **Analytics Dashboard**: Platform usage and performance metrics
- **Content Tools**: Bulk upload and content organization features

## 📊 Real-Time Analytics System

### **NEW: Comprehensive Progress Tracking**
The platform now includes a complete real-time analytics system that tracks:

#### **User Analytics**
- **Total XP**: Accumulated from all activities
- **Study Time**: Minutes spent learning
- **Streak System**: Daily login tracking with bonuses
- **Course Progress**: Real-time completion tracking
- **Achievement Tracking**: All user activities and milestones

#### **Weekly Progress**
- **Current Week XP**: Real-time weekly XP accumulation
- **Previous Week Comparison**: Week-over-week progress analysis
- **Study Hours**: Actual time spent studying
- **Weekly Goals**: Configurable XP targets with progress tracking

#### **Activity System**
- **Unit Completion**: Records when users complete course units
- **Quiz Passing**: Tracks quiz achievements and scores
- **Course Enrollment**: Records course starts and progress
- **Daily Login Bonuses**: Automatic XP rewards for consistent usage

#### **Streak System**
- **First Login**: Users start with 1-day streak immediately
- **Daily Bonuses**: 50 XP for daily logins, 100 XP for first login
- **Streak Tracking**: Visual feedback for consecutive days
- **Streak Breaking**: Automatic reset when users miss days

### **Dashboard Features**
- **Real Statistics**: All numbers calculated from actual user data
- **Live Updates**: Dashboard refreshes automatically with new data
- **Progress Visualization**: Charts and graphs showing real progress
- **Goal Tracking**: Weekly XP goals with progress bars
- **Achievement Display**: Recent activities and milestones

## 🔧 Development Guidelines

### Code Style
- Use TypeScript for all new files
- Follow React functional components with hooks
- Implement proper error boundaries where needed
- Use Tailwind CSS for styling with semantic class names
- Follow the existing file naming conventions

### Component Structure
```typescript
// Component template
import React from 'react';
import { ComponentProps } from '@/types/component';

interface ComponentNameProps {
  // Define props with proper types
}

const ComponentName = ({ ...props }: ComponentNameProps) => {
  // Component logic
  
  return (
    <div className="semantic-class-names">
      {/* Component JSX */}
    </div>
  );
};

export default ComponentName;
```

### Adding New Features
1. Create types in `/src/types/` if needed
2. Build reusable components in `/src/components/`
3. Add pages to appropriate `/src/pages/` subdirectory
4. Update routing in `App.tsx`
5. Add proper TypeScript interfaces
6. Test across different screen sizes

### Firebase Integration
- All user data is stored in Firebase Firestore
- Real-time listeners provide live updates
- Analytics are calculated from actual user activities
- Security rules ensure data protection

## 🎨 Theming

The platform uses a custom cosmic/gaming theme with:
- **Dark Background**: Deep space aesthetic
- **Accent Colors**: Orange/red gradient (`#FF4B1A` to `#FF794B`)
- **Typography**: Arabic support with Noto Sans Arabic, Changa fonts
- **Animations**: Smooth transitions and particle effects

### Color Palette
```css
--game-primary: #FF4B1A;    /* Primary orange */
--game-accent: #FF794B;     /* Secondary orange */
--cosmic-primary: #00D4FF;  /* Cyan blue */
--background: #0E0E0E;      /* Dark background */
```

## 📱 Responsive Design

The platform is optimized for:
- **Desktop**: Full feature experience (1024px+)
- **Tablet**: Adapted layouts (768px - 1023px)
- **Mobile**: Mobile-first approach (320px - 767px)

## 🧪 Testing

Currently using manual testing. Future improvements:
- Unit tests with Jest and React Testing Library
- Integration tests for user flows
- End-to-end testing with Playwright

## 🚀 Deployment

### Lovable Platform
1. Click "Publish" in the Lovable editor
2. Your app will be deployed to `yoursite.lovable.app`

### Custom Domain
1. Navigate to Project > Settings > Domains
2. Connect your custom domain
3. Follow DNS configuration instructions

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Follow the existing code style and patterns
2. Add proper TypeScript types for new features
3. Test on multiple screen sizes
4. Update documentation for new features
5. Ensure Arabic text displays correctly

### **🔒 Security Rules**

#### **Rule 3: Key Management**
When adding API keys, service account keys, or any sensitive credentials:
- ✅ **Add to `.gitignore`**: Ensure the file is listed in `.gitignore` before committing
- ✅ **Update README**: Document what keys are needed and how to obtain them
- ✅ **Environment Variables**: Use `.env` files for client-side keys when possible
- ✅ **Never Commit**: Never commit actual key files to version control

#### **Required Keys Setup**
The following keys are required for the project:

**Firebase Configuration (`config/firebaseConfig.ts`):**
```typescript
// Create this file with your Firebase project settings
export const firebaseConfig = {
  apiKey: "your-api-key",
  authDomain: "your-project.firebaseapp.com",
  projectId: "your-project-id",
  storageBucket: "your-project.appspot.com",
  messagingSenderId: "123456789",
  appId: "your-app-id"
};
```

**Firebase Admin SDK (`scripts/serviceAccountKey.json`):**
- Download from Firebase Console > Project Settings > Service Accounts
- Used for server-side operations (database population scripts)
- **NEVER commit this file to version control**

**Environment Variables (`.env`):**
```bash
# Create .env file for any additional API keys
VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your-api-key
VITE_ANALYTICS_ID=your-analytics-id
```

## 🗄️ Database Population Script

### Option 1: Client-Side (Recommended)
**No service account key required!**

1. **Update Firebase rules**: Use the rules from `firebase-security-rules-update.md`
2. **Open the HTML file**: Open `scripts/populate-database.html` in your browser
3. **Click the button**: Click "🚀 Populate Database" to add sample data
4. **Check the logs**: Watch the real-time progress in the browser

### Option 2: Node.js Script
**Requires service account key**

1. **Install dependencies**: `cd scripts && npm install`
2. **Add service account key**: Place `serviceAccountKey.json` in `config/` directory
3. **Update Firebase rules**: Use the rules from `firebase-security-rules-update.md`
4. **Run script**: `npm run populate`

### What it adds:
- **📊 15 leaderboard entries** (10 weekly + 5 monthly)
- **💬 10 motivational quotes** in Arabic
- **🎯 Realistic data** with Arabic names and scores

### Data Structure:
- **Leaderboards**: `leaderboards` collection with `period`, `score`, `rank`
- **Quotes**: `motivationalQuotes` collection with `text`, `author`, `category`

### Quick Start:
```bash
# Open the HTML file in your browser
open scripts/populate-database.html
```

## 📚 Additional Resources

- [Lovable Documentation](https://docs.lovable.dev/)
- [React Documentation](https://react.dev/)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [Radix UI](https://www.radix-ui.com/)
- [Firebase Documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs)

## 📄 License

All rights reserved © 2023 Darsni Educational Platform

---

## 🆘 Need Help?

- Check the [troubleshooting guide](https://docs.lovable.dev/tips-tricks/troubleshooting)
- Review component documentation in `/src/components/`
- Examine existing code patterns for reference
- Test with the provided demo accounts

**Happy coding! 🎓**
